[Music]
it's the ultimate test of time how would
all school train stand up against the
ones we have today is there even any
comparing you might be surprised
the grandpappies of locomotives have
their own victories if you ask me but
more on that later for now full steam
ahead
uh back to the past real cars were used
in some parts of England as far back as
the early 1500s they were mostly for
carrying coal or unrefined metals out of
mines or onto ships the first real
trains didn't come along until the
locomotion number one made its maiden
journey in 1825 this early engine looked
like a barrel on wheels and the little
400 foot train chugged along at a
leisurely 15 miles per hour
small and slow but it did manage to haul
about 600 passengers on its opening day
fast-forward 100 years and trains were
the kings of long distance travel for
example there's the Jolly Green Giant
known as the Flying Scotsman it has more
to its name than a brief cameo in the
Wizarding World of Harry Potter built
almost a century after the locomotion
number one the engine car of the Flying
Scotsman is nearly 80 feet long and
weighs over 100 tons compared that to
locomotions number one measly seven ton
engine car with a maximum speed of 100
miles per hour
a race between the two wouldn't even be
a fair contest but what about the trains
of today well diesel trains date back to
the late 1800s but only really started
to come into their own in the 1950s
modern diesel trains aren't that much
faster than those of the Scotsman's
generation the quickest diesel
locomotives in the world are the British
intercity 125 s in service since the
1970s these trains were designed to
travel at 125 miles per hour but have
been known to reach speeds of up to 148
miles per hour when pushed to their
limits that's a maximum speed comparable
to some
diesel trains are also much more
efficient than their steam predecessors
steam engines burn coal or wood to boil
water the steam is collected inside the
body of the engine and used to turn the
wheels that push it forward the problem
it takes a lot of pressure to move a
train so coal powered engines needed
time to warm up before they were ready
to go meaning too much coal had to be
burned before the Train could start
moving the excess steam also needed to
be released when the train arrived which
meant so much built-up energy going to
waste making matters worse steam engines
were dirty so the boilers required a
thorough cleaning at least once a month
the engines also needed to be partially
disassembled as part of regular
maintenance diesel engines are much
cleaner and less prone to breaking down
in the 1930s a typical steam train could
spend as much as 65 percent of its time
offline for maintenance a diesel engine
from the same era only had to spend five
percent of its time in the garage and
that number has only continued to shrink
over the decades but if you want to talk
about speed and efficiency that would be
electric one of the fastest trains
operating today is the SN C V TGV POS a
by a valve willya its name may be a
tongue twisting jumble of letters but
these sleek locomotives are capable of a
blistering 200 miles per hour there are
a few reasons electric trains are able
to achieve such cheap flapping speeds
but weight is one of the biggest most
diesel trains are actually diesel
electric that means the engine produces
electricity which is then used to power
the motors that drive the train forward
electric trains only need the motor to
turn the wheels since they get all their
power from the electrical grid they also
don't need to worry about carrying the
weight of fuel
electric trains are also quieter and
completely emission free they can even
produce some of their own power through
a system known as regenerative braking
simply put this means that as the Train
slows down the electric motors can work
as electrical generators the energy they
produce can then be put back into the
railway electrical grid
removing the diesel engines also cuts
down on the number of moving parts fewer
parts mean fewer things that can break
which cuts down on maintenance time the
only real downside is the upfront cost
of electrifying of pre-existing rail
network but that's the kind of problem
that's only an issue once then there are
maglev trains which use magnets to hover
or levitate above the tracks futuristic
fast and quiet they have all the
benefits of conventional electric trains
they're also immune to derailments and
the lack of wheels means they don't
experience friction which lets them
travel at a much greater speed than as
possible on standard tracks as of 2019
the fastest train in the world is ASC
maglev which can reach an incredible
maximum speed of 375 miles per hour hope
you weren't planning on seeing this bad
boy for yourself anytime soon
unfortunately the track is going to run
on isn't scheduled to open until 2027
and won't be 100 complete until 2042 the
problem is that maglev trains can't run
on regular tracks an entirely new rail
system must be built for them and that
comes with a hefty price tag not
everyone's convinced the benefits of
maglev trains outweigh the cost but what
do you think or more generally how is
the rail system in your country long
overdue for an upgrade hey let me know
down in the comments now speed and
efficiency are important at all
but what's it like to ride on these
machines and how does that compare to
our old barrel on wheels from earlier
yeah the first generations of trains
weren't very fun to ride on oh I'm sure
there was a lot of excitement the first
time you saw a giant metal horse
stampeding down the tracks but that
childlike wonder with a dash of fear
wore off if you were planning to ride
for more than a few hours the first
train cars resembled carriages or
stagecoaches and didn't offer much
protection from the smoke billowing from
the engine they were as unsafe as they
were uncomfortable the cars sometimes
banged together when stopping and
passengers were often thrown from their
seats the engine also tended to throw
off sparks or hot
first that could cause a fire glass
half-full it didn't take too long for
train cars develop into something more
recognizable half empty they weren't
much more comfortable are you in Chicago
and want a visit family on the East
Coast well get ready to spend up to two
days sitting on a hard wooden bench
things would improve in 1862 when the
Pullman Company started producing luxury
sleeper cars and I don't use the word
luxury lightly the cars had upholstered
seats carpeting and lacquered wood beds
were concealed behind overhead panels
and folded down like luggage
compartments the pullman company even
manufactured private luxury cars
basically hotel suites on wheels
there you go Pappy your victory or not
modern train cars are still much safer
and more comfortable than anything from
the 19th century although anyone who
rides the subway to work might have
trouble believing that depending on
where you live the subway is the best or
worst part of city living long distance
trains on the other hand can feel like
the lap of luxury the seats on modern
passenger trains are similar to ones on
many airliners the difference is that
they don't need seatbelts and you're
free to get up and walk around whenever
you feel like it private rail cars are
rare in the modern world but sleeper
cars are alive and well depending on the
route your train might come equipped
with anything from a small cafe or snack
bar to its own gourmet restaurant and of
course most passenger trains come
equipped with the greatest necessity of
modern living free Wi-Fi whoo all aboard
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share
with a friend and peer some other cool
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life